---
title: Difficult People
date: '2022-08-13'
image: difficult-people.jpeg
excerpt: Most of us have one or two exceptionally difficult people in our lives. How do we deal with such a person in our recovery?
lang: en
isFeatured: true
---

# Difficult people

Page 235

> *"By giving unconditional love...we become more loving, and by sharing spiritual growth we become more spiritual."* - Basic Text, p. 103

Most of us have one or two exceptionally difficult people in our lives. How do we deal with such a person in our recovery?

First, we take our own inventory. Have we wronged this person? Has some action or attitude of ours served as an invitation for the kind of treatment they have given us? If so, we will want to clear the air, admit we have been wrong, and ask our Higher Power to remove whatever defects may prevent us from being helpful and constructive.

Next, as people seeking to live spiritually oriented lives, we approach the problem from the other person's point of view. They may be faced with any number of challenges we either fail to consider or know nothing about, challenges that cause them to be unpleasant. As it's said, we seek in recovery "to forgive rather than be forgiven; to understand rather than be understood."

Finally, if it is within our power, we seek ways to help others overcome their challenges without injuring their dignity. We pray for their well-being and spiritual growth and for the ability to offer them the unconditional love that has meant so much to us in our recovery.

We cannot change the difficult people in our lives, nor can we please everyone. But by applying the spiritual principles we've learned in NA, we can learn to love them.

###### Just for Today: 

#### Higher Power, help me serve other people, not demand that they serve me.
